well thank you vectored lagoon off and I
want to thank all of you very much for a
very warm welcome it's a great pleasure
to be here at Moscow State University
and I want to thank you all for turning
out I know you must be very busy this
week studying and taking your final
examinations so let me just say je Lai
you um whose Becca
Nancy couldn't make it today because
she's visiting Leningrad which she tells
me is a very beautiful city but she too
says hello and wishes you all good luck
let me say it's also a great pleasure to
once again have this opportunity to
speak directly to the people of the
Soviet Union before I left Washington I
received many heartfelt letters and
telegrams asking me to carry here a
simple message perhaps but also one of
the most important business of this
summit it is a message of peace and
goodwill and hope for a growing
friendship and closeness between our two
peoples as you know I've come to Moscow
to meet with one of your most
distinguished graduates in this our
fourth summit general secretary
Gorbachev and I have spent many hours
together and I feel that we're getting
to know each other well our discussions
of course have been focused primarily on
many of the important issues of the day
issues I want to touch on with you in a
few moments but first I want to take a
little time to talk to you much as I
would to any group of university
students in the United States I want to
talk not just of the realities of today
but of the possibilities of tomorrow
standing here before a mural of your
revolution I want to talk about a very
different revolution that is taking
place right now quietly sweeping the
globe without bloodshed or conflict its
effects are peaceful but they will
fundamentally alter our world shatter
old assumptions and reshape our lives
it's easy to underestimate because it's
not accompanied by banners or fanfare
it's been called the technological or
information revolution and as its emblem
one might take the tiny
lacan ship no bigger than a fingerprint
one of these chips has more computing
power than a roomful of old-style
computers as part of an exchange program
we now have an exhibition tour in your
country that shows how information
technology is transforming our lives
replacing manual labor with robots
forecasting weather for farmers or
mapping the genetic code of DNA for
medical researchers these micro
computers today aid the design of
everything from houses to cars to
spacecraft they even design better and
faster computers they can translate
English into Russian or enable the blind
to read or help Michael Jackson produce
on one synthesizer the sounds of a whole
Orchestra linked by a network of
satellites and fiber-optic cables one
individual with a desktop computer and a
telephone commands resources unavailable
to the largest governments just a few
years ago like a chrysalis
we're emerging from the economy of the
Industrial Revolution an economy
confined to unlimited by the Earth's
physical resources into as one economist
titled his book the economy in mind in
which there are no bounds on human
imagination and the freedom to create is
the most precious natural resource think
of that little computer chip it's value
isn't in the sand from which it is made
but in the microscopic architecture
designed into it by ingenious human
minds or take the example of the
satellite relaying this broadcast around
the world which replaces thousands of
tons of copper mined from the earth and
molded into wire in the new economy
human invention increasingly
makes physical resources obsolete we're
breaking through the material conditions
of existence to a world where man
creates his own destiny even as we
explore the most advanced reaches of
science we're returning to the age-old
wisdom of our culture a wisdom contained
in the book of the genesis in the Bible
in the beginning was the spirit and it
was from this spirit that the material
abundance of creation issued forth but
progress is not for ordained the key is
freedom freedom of thought freedom of
information freedom of communication the
renowned scientist scholar and founding
father of this University
Mikhail Lomonosov knew that it is common
knowledge he said that the achievements
of science are considerable and rapid
particularly once the yoke of slavery
has cast off and replaced by the freedom
of philosophy you know one of the first
contacts between your country and mine
took place between Russian and American
explorers the Americans were members of
kooks last voyage on an expedition
searching for an Arctic passage on the
island of yon Alaska they came upon the
Russians who took them in and together
with the native inhabitants held a
prayer service on the ice the explorers
of the modern era are the entrepreneurs
men with vision with a courage to take
risks and faith enough to brave the
unknown these entrepreneurs and their
small enterprises are responsible for
almost all the economic growth in the
United States they are the prime movers
of the technological revolution in fact
one of the largest personal computer
firms in the United States was started
by two college students
no older than you in the garage behind
their home
some people even in my own country look
at the riot of experiment that is the
free market and see only waste what of
all the entrepreneurs that fail
well many do particularly the successful
ones often several times and if you ask
them the secret of their success they'll
tell you it's all that they learned in
their struggles along the way yes it's
what they learned from failing like an
athlete in competition or a scholar in
pursuit of the truth experience is the
greatest teacher and that's why it's so
hard for government planners no matter
how sophisticated to ever substitute for
millions of individuals working night
and day to make their dreams come true
the fact is bureaucracies are a problem
around the world there's an old story
about a town it could be anywhere with a
bureaucrat who was known to be a
good-for-nothing but he somehow had
always hung on to power so one day in a
town meeting an old woman got up and
said to him there is a folk legend here
where I come from that when a baby is
born an angel comes down from heaven and
kisses it on one part of its body if the
angel kisses him on his hand he becomes
a handyman
if he kisses him on his forehead he
becomes bright and Trevor and I've been
trying to figure out where the angel
kissed you so that you should sit there
for so long and do nothing
we are seeing the power of economic
freedom spreading around the world
places such as the Republic of Korea
Singapore Taiwan have vaulted into the
technological era barely pausing in the
Industrial Age along the way low tax
agricultural policies in the
subcontinent mean that in some years
India is now annexed a net exporter of
food perhaps most exciting of the winds
of change that are blowing over the
People's Republic of China where one
quarter of the world's population is now
getting its first taste of economic
freedom at the same time the growth of
democracy has become one of the most
powerful political movements of our age
in Latin America in the 1970s only 1/3
of the population lived under democratic
government today over 90% does in the
Philippines in the Republic of Korea
free contested democratic elections are
the order of the day throughout the
world free markets are the model for
growth democracy is the standard by
which governments are measured we
Americans make no secret of our belief
in freedom in fact it's something of a
national pastime every four years the
American people choose a new president
and 1988 is one of those years at one
point there were 13 major candidates
running in the two major parties not to
mention all the others including the
socialist and libertarian candidates all
trying to get my job about a thousand
local television stations 8,500 radio
stations and 1,700 daily newspapers each
one an independent private enterprise
fiercely independent of the government
report on the candidates grill them in
interviews and bring them together for
debates in the end the people vote they
decide
who will be the next president but
freedom doesn't begin our end with
elections go to any American town to
take just an example and you will see
dozens of churches representing many
different beliefs in many places
synagogues and mosques and you will see
families of every conceivable
nationality worshipping together go into
any schoolroom and there you will see
children being taught the Declaration of
Independence that they are endowed by
their creator with certain unalienable
rights among them life liberty and the
pursuit of happiness that no government
can justly deny the guarantees in their
constitution for freedom of speech
freedom of assembly and freedom of
religion go into any courtroom and there
will provide preside an independent
judge beholden to no government power
there every defendant has the right to a
trial by a jury of his peers
usually twelve men and women common
citizens they are the ones the only ones
who weigh the evidence and decide on
guilt or innocence in that court the
accused is innocent until proven guilty
and the word of a policeman or any
official has no greater legal standing
than the word of the accused go to any
University campus and there you'll find
an open sometimes heated discussion of
the problems in American society and
what can be done to correct them turn on
the television and you will see the
legislature conducting the business of
government right there before the camera
debating and voting on the legislation
that will become the law of the land
march in any demonstration and there are
many of them the people's right of
assembly is guaranteed in a constitution
and protected by the police go into any
union hall where the members know their
right to strike is protected by law
as a matter of fact one of the many jobs
I had before this one was being
president of a union the Screen Actors
Guild I led my union out on strike and
I'm proud to say we won but freedom is
more even than this freedom is the right
to question and change the established
way of doing things
it is the continuing revolution of the
marketplace it is the understanding that
allows us to recognize shortcomings and
seek solutions it is the right to put
forth an idea scoffed at by the experts
and watch it catch fire among the people
it is the right to stick to dream to
follow your dream or stick to your
conscience even if you're the only one
in a sea of doubters freedom is the
recognition that no single person no
single authority or government has a
monopoly on the truth but that every
individual life is infinitely precious
but every one of us put on this world
has been put there for a reason and has
something to offer America is a nation
made up of hundreds of nationalities our
ties to you are more than ones of good
feelings their ties of kinship in
America you'll find Russians Armenians
Ukrainians peoples from Eastern Europe
and Central Asia they come from every
part of this vast continent from every
continent to live in harmony seeking a
place where each cultural heritage is
respected each is valued for its diverse
strengths and beauties and the richness
it brings to our lives recently a few
individuals and families have been
allowed to visit relatives in the West
we can only hope that it won't be long
before all are allowed to do so and
Ukrainian Americans Baltic Americans
Armenian Americans can freely visit
their homelands just as this Irish
American visits his freedom it has been
said
makes people selfish and materialistic
but Americans are one of the most
religious peoples on earth because they
know that Liberty just as life itself is
not earned but a gift from God they seek
to share that gift with the world reason
and experience said George Washington in
his farewell address both forbid us to
expect that national morality can
prevail in exclusion of religious
principle and it is substantially true
that virtue or morality is a necessary
spring of popular government democracy
is less a system of government than it
is a system to keep government limited
unenthused amok on strain SunPower to
keep politics and government secondary
to the important things in life the true
sources of value found only in family
and faith but I hope you know I go on
about these things not simply to extol
the virtues of my own country but to
speak to the true greatness of the heart
and soul of your land who after all
needs to tell the land of Dostoevsky
about the quest for truth the home of
Kandinsky and scriabin about imagination
the rich and Noble culture of the use
Beck man of letters Ally Shearer Novoa
about beauty and heart the great culture
of your diverse land speaks with a
glowing passion to all humanity let me
cite one of the most eloquent
contemporary passages on human freedom
it comes not from the literature of
America but from this country from one
of the greatest writers of the 20th
century Boris Pasternak in the novel dr.
Zhivago he writes I think that if the
beast who sleeps in man could be held
down by threats
any kind of threat whether of jail or of
retribution after death then the highest
emblem of humanity would be the lion
tamer in the circus with his whip not
the Prophet who sacrificed himself but
this is just the point
what has for centuries raised man above
the meat beast is not the cudgel but an
inward music the irresistible power of
unarmed truth the irresistible power of
unarmed truth today the world looks
expectantly to signs of change steps
toward greater freedom in the Soviet
Union we watch us and we hope as we see
positive changes taking place there are
some I know in your society who fear the
change will bring only disruption and
discontinuity who fear to embrace the
hope of the future sometimes it takes
faith it's like that scene in the cowboy
movie Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
which some here in Moscow recently had a
chance to see the posse is closing in
and the two outlaws Butch and Sundance
who find themselves trapped on the edge
of a cliff with a sheer drop of hundreds
of feet to the raging Rapids below which
turns to Sundance and says their only
hope is to jump into the river below
but Sundance refuses he says he'd rather
fight it out with the posse even though
they're hopelessly outnumbered
butch says that suicide and urges him to
jump
but Sundance still refuses and finally
admits I can't swim butch breaks up
laughing and says you crazy fool the
fall will probably kill you
and by the way both Butch and Sundance
made it in case you didn't see the movie
I think what I've just been talking
about is perestroika and what his goals
are but change would not mean rejection
of the path
like a tree growing strong through the
seasons rooted in the earth and drawing
life from the Sun so to positive change
must be rooted in traditional values in
the land in culture in family and
community and it must take its life from
the eternal things from the source of
all life which is faith such change will
lead to new understandings new
opportunities to a broader future in
which the tradition is not supplanted
but finds its full flowering that is the
future beckoning to your generation at
the same time we should remember that
reform that is not institutionalized
will always be insecure such freedom
will always be looking over its shoulder
a bird on a tether no matter how long
the Rope can always be pulled back and
that is why in my conversation with
general secretary Gorbachev I have
spoken of how important it is to
institutionalize change to put
guarantees on reform and we've been
talking together about once a dream
einer of a divided world the Berlin Wall
it's time to remove the barriers that
keep people apart I'm proposing an
increased exchange program of high
school students between our countries
general secretary Gorbachev mentioned on
Sunday a wonderful phrase you have in
Russian for this better to see something
once than to hear about it
a hundred times mr. Gorbachev and I
first began working on this in 1985 in
our discussion today we agreed on
working up to several thousand exchanges
a year from each country in the near
future
but not everyone can travel across the
continents and oceans words travel
lighter and that's why we'd like to make
available to this country more of our
eleven thousand magazines and
periodicals and our television and radio
shows that can be beamed off a satellite
in seconds nothing would please us more
than for the Soviet people to get to
know us better and to understand our way
of life just a few years ago few would
have imagined the progress our two
nations have made together the INF
treaty which general secretary Gorbachev
and I signed last December in Washington
and whose instruments of ratification we
will exchange tomorrow the first true
nuclear arms reduction treaty in history
calling for the elimination of an entire
class of US and Soviet nuclear missiles
and just 16 days ago we saw the
beginning of your withdrawal from
Afghanistan which gives us hope that
soon the fighting may end and the
healing may begin and that that
suffering country may find
self-determination unity and peace at
long last it's my fervent hope that our
constructive cooperation on these issues
will be carried on to address the
continuing destruction of conflicts in
many regions of the globe and that the
serious discussions that led to the
Geneva Accords on Afghanistan will help
lead to solutions in southern Africa
Ethiopia Cambodia the Persian Gulf and
Central America I have often said
nations do not distrust each other
because they are armed they are armed
because they distrust each other
if this globe is to live in peace and
prosper if it is to embrace all the
possibilities of the technological
revolution then nations must renounce
once and for all the right to an
expansionist foreign policy peace
between nations must be an enduring goal
not a tactical stage in a continuing
conflict
I've been told that there's a popular
song in your country perhaps you know it
whose evocative refrain asks the
question do the Russians want a war in
answer it says go ask that silence
lingering in the air above the birch and
poplar there beneath those trees the
soldiers lie go ask my mother ask my
wife then you will have to ask no more
do the Russians want a war
but what of your one-time allies what of
those in brain who embraced you on the
Elbe what if we do ask the watery graves
of the Pacific or the European
battlefields where America's fallen were
buried far from home what if we were to
ask their mothers sisters and sons do
Americans want war ask us to and you
will find the same answer the same
longing in every heart people do not
make wars governments do and no mother
would ever ever willingly sacrifice her
sons for territorial gain for economic
advantage for ideology a people free to
choose will always choose peace
Americans seek always to make friends of
old antagonists after a colonial
revolution with Britain we have cemented
for all ages the ties of kinship between
our nation's after a terrible civil war
between north and south we healed our
wounds and found true unity as a nation
we fought two world wars in my lifetime
against Germany and one with Japan but
now the Federal Republic of Germany and
Japan are two of our closest allies and
friends some people point to the trade
disputes between us as a sign of strain
but there the frictions of all families
and the family of free nations is a big
and vital and sometimes boisterous one I
can tell you that nothing would please
my heart more
than in my lifetime to see American and
Soviet diplomats grappling with the
problem of trade disputes between
America and a growing exuberant
exporting Soviet Union that had opened
up to economic freedom and growth and as
important as these official
people-to-people exchanges are nothing
would please me more than for them to
become unnecessary to see travel between
East and West become so routine that
University students in the Soviet Union
could take a month off in the summer and
just like students in the West do now
put packs on their backs and travel from
country to country in Europe and with
barely a passport check in between
nothing would please me more than to see
the day that a concert promoter in say
England could call up a Soviet rock
group without going through any
government agency and have them playing
in Liverpool the next night is this just
a dream perhaps but it is a dream that
is our responsibility to have come true
your generation is living in one of the
most exciting hopeful times in Soviet
history it is a time when the first
breath of freedom stirs the air and the
heart beats to the accelerated rhythm of
hope when the accumulated spiritual
energies of a long silence yearn to
break free I am reminded of the famous
passage near the end of Gogol's dead
soiled Souls comparing his nation to a
speeding troika Gogol asks what will be
its destination but he writes there was
no answer
save the bell pouring forth marvellous
sound we do not know what the conclusion
of this will be of this journey but
we're hopeful that the promise of reform
will be fulfilled in this Moscow spring
this may 1988
we may be allowed that hope that freedom
like the fresh green sapling planted
over Tolstoy's grave will blossom forth
at last in the rich fertile soil of your
people and culture we may be allowed to
hope that the marvelous sound of a new
openness will keep rising through
ringing through leading to a new world
of reconciliation friendship and peace
thank you all very much and
blah go sloth eat Baga Spode god bless
you
there I get a virus year
Madam President the business circular
cylinder admits it Joshua Procyon a
scalpel in my view were spiritually
attacked monogamy occult pit nuts
two-minute wet employs by mu cohesive
approach parachute hadith microphone he
said please ask Soriano historisches
difficult yet
I guess Brian president yeras Murad
previously it was National City idea it
was voltage that item talk with a prose
a yeah de Muro pianist abolish a student
of Eustace Carrasco a prayer if
evolution at national Milton Hershey
missed random a bullet - named The
Virginian virtual presidents stove we do
multiple tomoko first needed novice
presidenta Kirk the political is public
on cerca de la vehicle mechanics a
distinct note the concern English Nevada
Nova can create Mexico he may be
recovering BLM Secretary on possible
this is a student from the history
faculty and he says that you very he's
happy to welcome you on behalf of the
students of the University and the first
question is that the improvement in the
relations between the two countries have
come about during your tenure as
president and in this regard he would
like to ask the following question it is
very important to get a handle on the
question of arms control and
specifically the limitation of strategic
arms do you think that it will be
possible for you and the general
secretary to get a treaty on the
limitation of strategic arms during the
time that you are still president
well the arms treaty that's being
negotiated now is the so-called START
treaty
and it is based on taking the
intercontinental ballistic missiles and
reducing them by half down to parity
between our two countries now this is a
much more complicated treaty than the
INF treaty the intermediate-range treaty
which we have signed and which our two
governments have ratified and is now in
effect
so there are many things still to be
settled you and we have had negotiators
in Geneva for months working on various
points of this treaty once that we had
hoped that maybe like the INF treaty we
would have been able to sign it here at
this summit meeting it is not completed
there are still some points that are
being debated
we are both hopeful that it can be
finished before I leave office which is
in the coming January but I assure you
that if it isn't I assure you that I
will have impressed on my successor that
we must carry on until it is signed my
dream has always been that once we've
started down this road we can look
forward to a day you can look forward to
a day when there will no be no more
nuclear weapons in the world
at all we will go focus of Chicago year
despite and precision looks very chic
very atoms tone your ski dyskinesia but
Patel's regime tourism Vietnam obsessed
name Union a Polish community of
spreadsheets was now as quiet as
Minne Lusa homogeneous to the east he
probably must give us a unity
donor showed me caucus me Lee Smolin is
the density probably most assured me you
mystic spies in the precision tea was
too dense created a national dream
summer positions of Kim Yuna special
caucus me nearly
influence public opinion and the student
wonders how the youths have changed
since the days when you were students up
to now wait a minute how you have
changed since the era of my own youth
how just students have changed the
youths have changed you were stood at
your time they were one time now they
have changed well I know there was a
period in our country when there was a
very great change for the worst when I
was governor of California I could start
a riot just by going to a campus but
that is all changed and I could be
looking out at an American student body
as well as I'm looking out here and
would not be able to tell the difference
between you I think that back in our day
I did happen to go to school get my
college education in a unique time it
was the time of the Great Depression
when in a country like our own there was
25 percent unemployment and the bottom
seemed to fall out
everything but we had I think what maybe
I should be telling you from my point
here because I graduated in 1932 that I
should tell you that when you get to be
my age you're going to be surprised how
much you recall the feelings you had in
these days here and that how easy it is
to understand the young people because
of your own having been young once you
know an awful lot more about being young
than you do about being old and I think
there is a seriousness I think there's a
sense of responsibility that young
people have and I think that there's an
awareness on the part of most of you
about what you want the your adulthood
to be and what the country you live in
you want it to be and I have a great
deal of faith I said the other day to
7876 students they were half American
and half Russian they had held a
conference here and in Finland and then
in the United States and I faced them
just the other day and I had to say I
couldn't tell the difference looking at
them which were which but I said one
line to them I said if I believe that if
all the young people of the world today
could get to know each other there would
never be another war and I think that of
you I think that are the other students
that I've addressed another in other
places and of course I know also that
you're young and therefore there are
certain things that at times take
precedence illustrate one myself 25
years after I graduated my alma mater
brought me back to the school and gave
me an honorary degree and I had to tell
them
compounded a sense of guilt I had nursed
for 25 years because I always thought
the first degree they gave me was
honorary your great carry on
professional pajamas to show up Russell
Serio Anna prevalent in our Anya began
and conflict of Buddha prodigals
nakai kia reunion America's grenades no
pressure on is dodging with a
probability we silly powers Mooney
neo-nazi drama American agribusiness
Naruko freaking there any mr. president
you have
well for example in South Africa where
Namibia has been promised its
independence as a nation another new
African nation but it is impossible
because of a civil war going on in
another country there and that civil war
is being fought on one side by some 30
to 40 thousand Cuban troops who have
gone from the Americas over there and
are fighting on one side with one kind
of authoritative government when that
country was freed from being a colony
and given its independence one faction
seized power and made itself the
government of that nation and leaders of
another seemingly majority of the people
had wanted simply the people to have the
right to choose the government that they
would but they wanted and that is the
civil war that is going on but what we
believe is that those foreign soldiers
should get out and let them settle it
let them the citizens of that nation
settled their problems and the same is
true in well in Nicaragua Nicaragua has
been Nicaragua made a promise
I had a dictator there was a revolution
there was an organization that and was
aided by others in the revolution and
they appealed to the Organization of
American States for help in getting the
dictator to step down stop the killing
and he did but the Organization of
American States had asked what are the
goals of the revolution and they were
given in writing and they were the goals
of a pluralistic society of the right of
unions and freedom of speech and press
and so forth and free elections a
pluralistic society and then the one
group that
was the best organized among the
revolutionaries seized power exiled many
of the other leaders and has its own
government which violated every one of
the promises that had been made and here
again we want we're trying to encourage
the giving back those or the making
those promises come true and letting the
people of that particular country decide
their fate perilously show up Raza
Shirazi meet faculty a journalistic our
dream I guess was in president mania
which in his pockets with battle soda
City servioticy exalted Kotori properly
business evolved in Astana emigrated
Olivia Quezada she knew polish Rose ke
rational Dino still mr. president I'm
very much anxious and concerned about
the destiny of 310 Soviet soldiers being
missing in Afghanistan can you and are
you willing to help in their search and
they returned to the motherland very
much so we would like working like
nothing better than their Bartowski show
up Rossi
a very uh not me tree student you reduce
cough consider aspirin precision
really that's a great enemy neodermyl
matured improv state period mistress of
Australia ocean Syrian a problem a
street in Utica problem macaque
procrastination Arusha prosper trainee
pornography respite Remini narcotic of
capacity at problem means business
discrete democracy medium limited
democracy nice business law illustrative
slow-motion peroxide the realization of
the alienable rights of citizens
guaranteed by the Constitution faces
certain problems for example the right
of people to have arms all for example
the problem appears and evil appears
whether spread of pornography or
narcotics is compatible with these
rights do believe that these problems
just unavoidable unavoidable problems
connected with democracy or they would
be avoided
well if I understand you correctly this
is this is a question about the
inalienable rights of the people does
that include the right to do criminal
acts and it's for example in the use of
drugs and so forth No
no we have a set of laws I think what is
significant and different about our
system is that every country has a
constitution and most constitutions are
practically all of the Constitution's in
the world are documents in which the
government tells the people what the
people can do our Constitution is
different and the difference is in three
words it almost escapes everyone the
three words are we the people our
Constitution is a document in which we
the people tell the government what its
powers are and it can have no powers
other than those listed in that document
but very carefully at the same time the
people give the government the power
with regard to those things which they
think would be destructive to society to
the family to the individual and so
forth infringement on their rights and
thus the government can enforce the laws
but they that has all been dictated by
the people first issue approaching
president is history
yes master you preach a snake but
realistic question passed on the bastion
predominate state sliced you
Susi's Prasad she was at Starrcade
Kosciusko was shells yes people as much
as possible we should not instruct mr.
president from history I know that
people who have been connected with
great power were big posts say goodbye
leave these boats with great difficulty
since your term of office is coming to
an end
what sentiments do you experience and
whether you feel like if hypothetically
you can just stay for another term well
I'll tell you something it was a I think
it was a kind of a revenge against
Franklin Delano Roosevelt who was
elected four times the only president
that kind of grown a tradition in our
country about two terms that tradition
was started by Washington our first
president only because there was great
talk at the formation of our country
that we might become a monarchy and we
had just freed ourselves from a monarchy
so when the second term was over George
Washington stepped down and said he
would do it stepping down so that there
would not get to be the kind of idea of
an inherited aristocracy well succeeding
presidents many of them didn't get a
chance at second term and they did one
term and were gone but that tradition
try kind of remained but it was just a
tradition and then Roosevelt ran the
four times died very early in his fourth
term and suddenly in the atmosphere at
that time they added an amendment to the
Constitution that presidents could only
serve two terms when I get out of office
I can't do this while I'm in office
because it'll look if I'm selfishly
doing it for myself
when I get out of office
I'm going to travel around what I call
the mashed potato circuit that is the
after-dinner speaking and the speaking
to luncheon groups and so forth I'm
going to travel around and try to
convince the people of our country that
they should wipe out that amendment to
the Constitution because it was an
interference with the Democratic rights
of the people the people should be
allowed to vote for who they wanted to
vote for for as many times as they want
to vote for him and that it is they who
are being denied a right but you see I
will no longer be president then so I
can I can do that and talk for that
there are a few other things I'm going
to try to convince the people to impress
upon our Congress the things that should
be done I've always described it that if
if in Hollywood when I was there if you
didn't sing or dance you wound up as an
after-dinner speaker and I didn't sing
or dance so I have a hunch that I will
be out on the speaking circuit telling
about a few things that I didn't get
done in government but urging the people
to tell the Congress they wanted them
done
growls to show you a process so boy who
like is difficult it is
brilliant
yes Lucius to Moscow pre you have a
group when disco cigars Danube Asha
Iranian Islamism Street the signal no
status college partial to stop emission
at the street is the window speed
streets in which these treaties leave us
Neumann are within that a group of
American Indians have come here because
they couldn't meet you in the United
States of America if you fail to meet
them here will you be able to improve to
correct it and to meet them back in the
United States I didn't know that they
had asked to see me if if they've come
here or whether to see them now ABI
I'd be very happy to see them let me
tell you just a little something about
the American Indian in our land we have
provided millions of acres of land for
what are called the preservations
are the reservations I should say they
they from the beginning announced that
they wanted to maintain their way of
life as they had always lived there in
the desert and the plains and so forth
and we set up these reservations so they
could and have a Bureau of Indian
Affairs to help take care of them at the
same time we provide education for them
schools on the reservations and they are
free also to leave the reservations and
be American citizens among the rest of
us and many do some still prefer however
that way of that early way of life and
we've done everything we can to meet
their demands as to what they how they
want to live maybe we made a mistake
maybe we should not have humored him in
that wanting to stay in that kind of
primitive lifestyle maybe we should have
said no come join us be citizens
along with the rest of us as I say many
have many have been very successful and
I'm very pleased to to meet with them
talk with them at any time and see what
their grievances are or what they feel
they might be you'd be surprised
some of them became very wealthy because
some of those reservations were
overlaying great pools of oil and you
can get very rich pumping oil and so I
don't know what their complaint might be
gospel imprecision pasta butts of shares
Novotny Amenia New Jersey toward Mobile
Suit disability palates I must yeah but
pallets and a premium very mighty rsdc
Rosa prostatitis booze net Tocqueville
was officially nerds out street after
cosmic is what shared services today
I'm very much tantalized since yesterday
evening by the question why did you
receive yesterday did you receive and
when you invite yesterday just refusing
so dissidents and to the sex part of the
question is just what are you
impressions from Soviet people and among
this just this once you have invited a
former collaborator with the fascists
who was a policeman serving for fascists
I don't know about or maybe the
informations hasn't been all given out
on that but you have to understand that
Americans come from every corner of the
world I received a letter from a man
that calls something to my attention
recently he said you can go to live in
France but you cannot become a Frenchman
you can go to live in Germany you cannot
become a German or a Turk or a Greek or
whatever but he said anyone from any
corner of the world can come to live in
America and become an American you have
to realize that we are people that have
made up of every strain nationality and
race of the world and the result is that
when people in our country think someone
is being mistreated or treated unjustly
in another country these are people who
still feel that kinship to that country
because that is their heritage in
America whenever you meet someone new
and become friends one of the first
things you tell each other it's what
your bloodline is
for example I when I'm asked I have to
say Irish English and Scotch English and
scotch and my mother's side Irish on my
father's side but all of them have that
well when you take unto yourself a wife
you do not stop loving your mother so
there in ameri Americans all feel a kind
of a kinship to that country that their
parents or their grandparents or even in
some and great grandparents came from
you don't lose that contact so what I
have come and what I have brought to
this general secretary and I must say he
has been very cooperative about I have
brought lists of names that have been
brought to me that are from people that
are relatives or friends that know that
they that were believed that this
individual is being mistreated here in
this country and they wanted him to be
allowed to emigrate to our country
some are separated families one that I
met in this the other day was born in
the same time I was he was born of
Russian parents who had moved to America
way back in the early 1900s and he was
born in 1911 and then sometime later the
family moved back to Russia now he's
grown has a son he's an American citizen
but they wanted to go back to America
and they're being denied on the grounds
that well they can go back to America
but his son married a Russian young lady
and they want to keep her from going
back well the whole family said no we're
not gonna leave her alone
here she's a member of the family now
back well that that kind of a case is
brought to me personally so I bring it
to the general secretary and as I say I
must say he has been most helpful and
most agreeable about correcting these
things now I'm not blaming you I'm
blaming bureaucracy we have the same
type of thing happen in our own country
and every once in a while somebody has
to get the bureaucracy by the neck and
shake it loose and say stop doing what
you're doing and this is this is the
type of thing and the names that we have
brought and it is a list of names all of
which had been brought to me personally
by either relatives or close friends and
associates President was a sharpener
that's probably me was at yet
you were all very kind I thank you very
much and I hope I answered the questions
correctly nobody asked me what it was
going to feel like to not be president
anymore I have some understanding
because after I'd been governor for
eight years
and then stepped down I want to tell you
what it's like we'd only been home a few
days and someone invited us out to
dinner
Nancy and I both went out got in the
back seat of the car and waited for
somebody to get in the front and drive
us gasping but it was not privy to our
position but that is one souvenir to
remind you is the present in most when
you're asleep muscosa like to
congratulate you with a souvenir
depicting University of Moscow